

Food banks: The food bank relation has an internal ID (denoted as FB_ID) which acts as the primary key for the relation. foodBankUsername is a unique username chosen by the food bank which they use to login to the dashboard. We also have the name, location, type of organization, phone number, primary contact and email as the attributes of the food bank. 
This relation is connected to Donation relation and Documentation relation, both of which have FB_ID as one of the attributes. 

Distributer: The distributor relation has an internal ID (denoted as DR_ID) which acts as the primary key for the relation. distributerUsername is a unique username chosen by the distributor which they use to login to the dashboard. We also have the name, location, type of organization, joining date, phone number, primary contact and email as the attributes of the distributor. 
This relation is connected to Donation relation and Documentation relation, both of which have DR_ID as one of the attributes

Donor: The donor relation has an internal ID (denoted as DN_ID) which acts as the primary key for the relation. donorUsername is a unique username chosen by the donor which they use to login to the dashboard. We also have the name, address, phone number, age (if an individual), joining date and email as attributes. Donors can be either an individual or an organization that does not need tax benefits like school or community gardens. 
This relation is connected to the Donation relation which has DN_ID as one of its attributes. This foreign relation helps track the donor who made the donation. 

Admin: The admin relation has an internal ID (denoted as AD_ID) which acts as the primary key for the relation. adminUsername is a unique username chosen by the admin which they use to login to the dashboard. We also have the name, address, phone number, and email as the attributes of the admin. 

Donation: Donation relation also has an internal ID which tracks donations from a particular distributor or donor to a particular food bank. Donation relation requires internal IDs of both a donor/distributor and a food bank (foreign keys used as a composite key). It is created whenever a donor/distributor makes a donation. Its attributes are the Type of Donation (food, toys, etc.), Quantity of Donation (lbs or number), and Expiration Date.

Documentation: Documentation relation uses the official registration or certificate number as its primary key. It has the internal IDs of Food bank, Distributor and Donor as foreign keys to track which organization a particular document belongs to. It also has the name of the organization, type of organization, type of documentation, date obtained and date valid and its attributes. 

Reflection

Some of the decisions we made while creating the ERD were deciding which entities will be represented in the diagram and how they will be related to each other. We referred to the ERD diagram to make sure that the entities, attributes, are consistent. Conceptual models are particularly useful to clearly see how different entities influenced the others and gives a visual means to represent the relationship between them. 

In the future, we will gather as much details and information as possible at the conceptual stage and be more flexible with the way we create entities because when we made the entities more specific at the conceptual stage, it was harder to shift things around when translating into a relational model. It felt like some details and attributes were set on stone and hard to change and that was not ideal.

When we were creating our logical schema, one important thing we had to change was the primary keys of Food banks, Donor, Distributors and Donation. While creating an ERD helped us with a general idea of the relationship between the entities, creating a schema helped us get into the details of each entity and logically establish the relationships between them. For example, creating a schema helped us identify a need for internally generated primary keys as well as a need for a unique identification number for each donation. At first we thought donations could be identified using a composite key between the food bank and the donor/distributor, however, while working on the diagram, we realized that this logic would not work for recurring donations and hence we need to create an internal ID for each donation. 

Overall, this project gave us a better idea of the working of the organization and we came up with several follow up questions to ask our client during the next meeting which will give us further clarification. 
